I built a second service last week for one reason: to find out what my own tool
saves when somebody uses it on real work.

The service is an on-call system — the thing that wakes an engineer up when a
website breaks at three in the morning.

Here is the part worth knowing if you pay for an AI coding assistant.

Assistants charge by the token, and reading is where most of the money goes.
Before one can tell you anything useful about your software, it reads: the code,
the logs, the tests, the history.

To answer the everyday questions about this one service — is it running, what is
broken, did anything fail — an assistant reads 60,300 tokens.

bundlebox answers the same questions in 519.

Same questions. Same answers. 116 times less.

The reason is not clever. Most of what an assistant reads is not thinking, it is
looking. Is the service up? A request answers it. Which tests fail? Running the
tests answers it. What changed since yesterday? A comparison answers it. None of
those need intelligence, and a small program does them in under a second for
nothing.

Across the whole build, about 1.2 million tokens of reading never had to happen.
Priced conservatively that is roughly $6. There is an upper figure of $20 that
charges every displaced turn the full window it would have re-sent, and I would
not quote it — I have written a whole post about not passing your best case off
as your behaviour.

The AI itself was paid exactly once: $1.10, to write one page that genuinely
needed writing.

Paying for the thinking and not for the looking is the whole point of this kind
of tooling.

One more thing, because it is the part I did not expect.

While measuring, the tool found a real bug I would have shipped. The system has a
snooze button — quiet this alert for twenty minutes. Snoozing worked. But the
moment the twenty minutes were up, the alert went straight past the engineer to
their boss, instantly, instead of giving them the twenty minutes it had just
promised.

Twenty-six tests passed over that bug. Every one of them watched a single step,
and the bug was in the order of the steps.

Everything is public, and every number here came out of a file the run produced
rather than off a slide.

  npm i -g bundlebox

github.com/blackswanalpha/bundlebox-projects

#AI #DeveloperTools #Productivity #OpenSource
