I wrote an ecommerce service for the sole purpose of finding out whether my own
tool was worth anything.

Catalogue, cart, checkout, orders, admin. Twelve unit tests. All green.

Then I pointed bundlebox at it — over the wire, and then at the browser — and it
came back with five bugs none of those tests could reach:

1. A forged token got 403 "admin only" instead of 401. The difference matters:
   403 tells whoever forged it that the token parsed.
2. qty: 1.5 was truncated to 1 and charged. The service was deciding what the
   customer meant.
3. Same truncation on the admin stock endpoint. 2.5 units became 2.
4. DELETE /cart/lines/:id returned 405 for a route that exists — the PATCH
   handler above it matched the path first and answered on its behalf.
5. Ten products rendered ten buttons all named "Add to cart". Indistinguishable
   to a screen reader, and indistinguishable to my own test, which was reduced
   to counting how many were disabled.

Seventeen scenarios, 92 steps, 12 seconds, 87 requests, zero model tokens. No
LLM was involved in finding any of it.

The first four live in the gap unit tests don't cover: the status code, the
route table, the coercion at the edge. The fifth lives in a gap I had no
instrument for until last week — what the page shows. You can have a green suite
and a confident agent and still be wrong in all five places.

On the screen, one number surprised me enough to be worth passing on. To know
what's on that page you can read the rendered DOM (1,812 tokens) or the raw
accessibility tree (28,059). The tree everyone recommends handing to a model is
fifteen times the markup it replaces. Filtered to the roles a customer can act
on, it's 302. The filtering is the value, not the tree.

The self-audit, which is the part that should make you trust the rest.

The first draft of this post said 97%. Re-measured properly it is 95% — 22,244
down to 1,105. The difference is that the old figure quietly averaged six runs
of the log instead of one, and more log is a bigger saving for the same
mechanism. I have written a whole post telling other people not to quote their
best case as their behaviour, and then did it in my own draft.

Also: four of my test scenarios were wrong, not the product's. Each assumed
state an earlier scenario had already changed — so they were asserting on the
order of my own test suite. And sampleOne is code I wrote to be measured, which
makes it friendlier than yours.

The whole thing is public, and the monitor page is generated from the JSON the
run produced rather than typed by hand, so you can check every number against
the artefact it came from.

  npm i -g bundlebox

github.com/blackswanalpha/bundlebox-projects

#AIcoding #DeveloperTools #Testing #Accessibility #OpenSource
