My AI coding bill for this project is $696.34.

I know that to the cent, across nineteen sessions, because the tool I was
building reads it back off the transcripts rather than asking me to estimate it.

Here is the part I did not expect to be able to say precisely: what it would
otherwise have been.

Coding assistants charge by the token, and reading is where most of the money
goes. Before one can tell you anything useful about your software it reads —
the files, the tests, the history, the thing it read four turns ago and has
since forgotten.

So I ran the same twelve tasks two ways. The tasks are not invented; they come
out of this repository's own open findings.

Read the tree the way an assistant does, opening the ten most likely files
whole: 866,600 tokens.

Read one located brief per task instead — the files, the exact line ranges, the
command that proves the change: 32,700.

At list input pricing for the model I use, that is $4.33 against $0.16. Same
twelve tasks, same answers.

Both of those are counts of text on disk. Neither run called a model, so
neither number is a projection of anything.

Across the whole project, 1,587 local runs displaced 23,263 assistant turns.
Priced at the median billed turn in this workspace that comes to 38.2 million
tokens, or roughly $191 of reading that never went on the wire.

I am not putting that figure in the headline, and I would rather you did not
either. That $191 is the only number here that is modelled instead of
measured, and the tool labels it that way in its own output. A savings claim that quietly
adds a measurement to a counterfactual is a number nobody can check, and nobody
checks a number that looks reasonable.

Two things this does not say.

The twelve tasks came from this repository, and a tool that ranks work inside
the codebase it was written against has a home advantage. On SWE-bench
Verified, which it did not get to choose, the same ranker put every gold file
in scope for 6 of 12 instances against 2 before — and the packed context went
up 41% to buy that. Spending less and finding the right file pull against each
other. The release notes say so in the same table.

And $696.34 is still $696.34. The box did not make this project cheap. It made
the looking cheap, and left the bill to the thinking.

One more thing, because the whole saving rests on it.

This week the tool caught one of its own tables reporting itself up to date
while its contents were wrong. That table exists so a session can read it
instead of searching the tree — it is the saving. A cheap answer is only worth
anything if it is a correct answer, and the moment it is quietly stale you have
bought a discount on being misled.

Every number above came out of a file the run produced.

  npm i -g bundlebox

github.com/blackswanalpha/bundlebox

#AI #DeveloperTools #ClaudeCode #Productivity #OpenSource
