I wrote the experiment that could prove my own tool is not worth installing,
and published what it would cost to run before running it.

bundlebox makes one claim: the same work on less context. Those are two
claims, and only one of them has been measured.

The measured one. On SWE-bench Verified, 100 instances, the packed brief put
2.8k tokens in the window against 8.7k for an arm that greps the tree and reads
the top ten files. The maintainer's own changed files were inside that scope
64.3% of the time against 24.6%. Both arms are token counts over text on disk.
Neither called a model, so neither number is a projection of one.

The unmeasured one is the question anybody sensible asks next: does the smaller
window cost you any outcome?

I could not answer it, so I wrote down how it would be answered.

The first decision was that it is not a superiority trial. "Does bundlebox score
higher on SWE-bench" is a question the product does not claim to answer, and a
null result from it would tell you nothing. The matching design is
non-inferiority: same tasks, same model, same scaffold, and the hypothesis is
that the smaller window does not cost more than M points of resolve rate.

M = 7.5 points. Declared before any trial, and not chosen because it is
reachable — chosen because a tool that costs you more than about one task in
thirteen is not worth its install, whatever it saves on tokens. If that margin
is wrong, it is wrong now, while nobody has seen any data.

Then the sizing, which is where it got uncomfortable.

Both arms run identical tasks, so this is McNemar's test on the pairs that
disagree. At 80% power and a one-sided 2.5%, M = 7.5 needs between 210 and 489
tasks depending on how often the arms disagree — and the discordance rate is
unknown until somebody runs it.

DeepSWE has 113 tasks.

So the honest position is that the corpus I have cannot answer the question at
the margin I declared. Running both arms over all 113 once is 226 trials. On
claude-opus-5 that is roughly $2,676 at the published per-task cost, and it
would still be underpowered.

Three ways out, in the order I would take them: run it at three attempts per
task for 339 trials an arm, which also measures per-task variance that nothing
here has; or widen M to 12.5, which 113 tasks do support, and say plainly that
the claim got weaker; or move to SWE-bench Verified's 500 tasks, which needs the
official harness and a Docker image per repository.

What I will not do is run the corpus, read the result, and then pick the margin
that makes it come out well. Writing the margin, the sizing and the analysis
down now is what makes that impossible later.

One aside from the model selection, because it surprised me. The obvious pick
was the mid-tier model. On the public board it is the worst row on both axes
this trial cares about: 54% at $26.40 a task over 214k tokens and 268 steps,
against 74% at $11.84 over 118k tokens and 99 steps for the larger one. Cheaper
and better, not a trade. Those are Datacurve's published measurements on a
different scaffold, so I treat them as an order of magnitude and not a quote.

An arm that never calls the tool is not a bundlebox arm, so the trial records
whether it was called at all, and voids those trials rather than counting them
as losses. And a confidence interval that includes the margin gets published as
an inconclusive run at that sample size, with the sample size.

A tool that will not tell you what would falsify it is not making a claim. It is
doing marketing.

The design is in the repository, under bench/deepswe/DESIGN.md, and it is dated
earlier than any result I ever report from it.

  npm i -g bundlebox

github.com/blackswanalpha/bundlebox

#AI #DeveloperTools #Benchmarking #ClaudeCode #OpenSource
